---
layout: post
title: Sonic Pattern Symposium
date: 2015-11-18
---

[Sonic Pattern and the Textility of Code](http://sonicpattern.com/) is
a series of events (symposia, performances, exhibitions) curated by
Karen Gaskill (who until 2016 lead the Innovation strand of the Crafts
Council) and Alex McLean. Through these events we bring people working
variously with threads, sound and code together, for discussion and
practice focussing on the cultural-technological role of pattern in
their work.

As part of the Inhabiting the Hack series, we joined with the AHRC
[Weaving Codes, Coding Weaves](http://kairotic.org) project and Crafts
Council to fund a symposium, evening of performances and group
residency.

## Symposium

The symposium brought together six artists to talk about their work,
chaired by Karen Gaskill, and with David Littler and Alex McLean
leading two group discussion sessions.

----

**Amy Twigger Holroyd – Knitting/Numbers** - Amy Twigger Holroyd is a
designer, maker, researcher and writer. Through her craft fashion
knitwear label, Keep & Share, she has explored the emerging field of
fashion and sustainability since 2004. Amy will talk about the
centrality of mathematics and number patterns to her knitting
practice, from the design of fabrics and garments to an obsession with
ratios which emerged while exploring the challenge of changing gauge
as part of her PhD research.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YWBcqVFdbms" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

----

**Mattias Jones** spots and draws patterns, including tessellations,
  space filling curves and tiling patterns, by hand or via handmade
  robots. He often works in collaboration with psychologists,
  mathematicians and musicians, across multiple media.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FAIkxbdF98o" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

----

**Gemma Latham – Participatory Textiles** - Gemma Latham is a
participatory artist who expands and magnifies textile processes in
the creation of installations and interventions, inviting the public
to join in the making. Interested in capturing moments of flow, Gemma
has been exploring code as a form of co-production in the
interpretation of participants’ experiences during making.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xpNKupgNjsg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

----

**David Littler** is a sonic visual artist and curator. His work
  explores the connections between people, place, making, materials
  and sound. He is a founder member of the sonic arts collective
  sampler-cultureclash and has recently curated Yan Tan Tethera: songs
  of textilefolk in conjunction with the English Folk Dance and Song
  Society. David lead the following discussion with Amy and Gemma:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/mevSWIBGcrk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

----

**Theo Burt – Batch Transformations and Euphoria** - Burt makes
extensive use of automatic processes in his audio/visual work,
creating ambiguous and liminal situations that explore our urge to
read narratives within even highly abstracted events and the
contradictions this creates with our phenomenal experience. He will
talk about his remix works for the Automatics Group, beginning with
Summer Mix (2011, Entr’acte / Death of Rave), including offline
processes, disrupted symbols and mass data generation/curation. This
presentation was not filmed.

----

**Sharon Mossbeck** is a conceptual artist whose work focuses on themes of death and religion, often presented in a vibrant, hedonistic manner. Mossbeck works in a variety of media, including painting, sculpture using found objects and textiles. She is currently artist in resident at Bank St Arts in Sheffield, where she is working on a large scale sculptural piece using cross stitch methods and inspired by DNA patterns and Byzantine church domes.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SaVAmgHDklA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

----

**Francesca Sargent** is a researcher and technologist as part of FoAM Kernow in Falmouth, which collaborates on the Weaving Codes project with the University of Leeds and the Copenhagen Centre for Textile Research, including creating the Pattern Matrix for tangible weavecoding.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tb5Y6r0ZxM0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

----

**Alex McLean** is an interdisciplinary researcher and practitioner
  based in Sheffield, UK, with focus on pattern in music, computer
  languages and textiles. He works across algorithmic music and
  digital arts, and has organised many international events including
  chairing the first International Conference on Live Coding, the
  International Conference on Live Interfaces, and the Sonic Pattern
  symposia with Karen Gaskill. As a musician he performs widely
  through several collaborations, using the TidalCycles live coding
  environment which he created, and is now a vibrant free/open source
  project. He has co-lead several Arts and Humanities Research Council
  projects, most recently the Weaving Codes, Coding Weaves
  project. Alex lead the following discussion with Francesca, Gemma
  and Matt:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/mevSWIBGcrk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
